# Recurse Center Blagg -- Jan 8, Day 5

You better believe I'm bloggin again!!!!!!!

Whew, OK! Well, one thing that hasn't changed from my regular work life is that I tend to do my best programming earlier in the week, and by Friday I'm usually only good for smaller or non-technical tasks. Not saying I'm totally hosed at this point, but it's been a real week of a week!

After my last post on Wednesday afternoon:

Resubmitted my Chrome extension to the Chrome store following an automatic rejection for having declared a permission I didn't need -- I was confused about "activeTab" vs. "tabs", since the former is really all you're supposed to use for most single-page actions but it looks like it's calling the latter API on paper, and it turns out that most extensions absolutely *don't* need access to all tabs at all times, so I've sorted that out. On reviewing the code, though, it actually looks pretty robust beyond that, which I feel better about -- I felt like I wrote it in a bit of a slapdash daze on first go, but it turns out that I am more or less up to the task of shipping a simple Chrome extension in a day, so, great!

Had a fun chat with [Julia Evans](https://wizardzines.com/) about QEMU, since she was hitting the limits of VirtualBox's portability and scripting support, which was what drove me to migrate to QEMU myself for some of my VMs a few weeks ago. From the sound of things I may have mostly succeeded in creating a bigger afternoon headache for her, but I like her work so much that I was frankly just happy to be able to share some knowledge.

Got started with `react-native`, which involved rigging together a Visual Studio compiler environment, which is not my favourite thing, at all -- I had some experience with this for a [past project](../cuda.md), but it sucks, and sure enough, I lost an hour to trying to finagle just the build tools as opposed to the whole IDE, figuring out whether I needed 2017 vs. 2019, running some godforsaken Powershell script that wouldn't initialize the dependencies properly half the time even though it was complaining about a binary that clearly existed, etc... I switched halfway through complaining about this to trying to make it work on my Mac instead, and the resulting XCode headache was almost as bad. Everything is ***working*** and building now on both machines, but that was enough of that for now.

Got a pull request on [Does It Beep](https://doesitbeep.com/)! My empire grows! Recursers have been very polite about my self-promotion of all my silliest projects...

Wanted to feel like I'd gotten a *little* more coding done after all that, so I added an asked-for feature to [https://whosyourdad.de/](https://whosyourdad.de/) allowing you to pass a dad-haver to the URL (e.g. [https://whosyourdad.de/Neil%20Gaiman](https://whosyourdad.de/Neil%20Gaiman)) -- this was the one feature that a friend asked for when I launched this project initially, and it helps significantly with shareability. It was pretty straightforward (read: elegant), but given that I also put off doing it for six months and managed to learn more about the flexibility of Flask templating while implementing it, it still felt pretty worthwhile.

Started following this [Rust and Webassembly](https://rustwasm.github.io/docs/book/introduction.html) book that I think I saw linked by [Max Bittker](https://maxbittker.com/) when I was hanging around [Wordhack](https://toddwords.com/wordhack/) last summer. WebASM is, broadly speaking, the other part of my frontend dev skillset I'd like to fill out after react-native stuff, and though my experience of Rust so far is "it looks like Perl... and... C?" I'm finding it doable enough, so that's nice. Also going to a gamedev meetup this afternoon at Recurse, so there's a chance it'll be useful there.

I am really happy with the pace of this week! I hope I can keep it up! I'm still statically linking all these "blog" entries to the main page of my portfolio because I haven't quite felt like committing to a TOC and an RSS feed yet, but... I think I am on the verge of redefining my short-term productivity standards to the point of counting that as a "downtime" task (yikes), so stay tuned.